Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about one of the elements
that's involved in using those outsourcing freelancing platforms that we cover and we're going to answer
the question is your actual site reputation important.
So if you don't ask this after you're done with a project with a freelancer they leave your review and
you leave them a review.
You rate them on a number of different things and it varies between the platforms.
Several of them actually record how much money you've spent and how quickly you pay the freelancer.
So obviously with most platforms out there whether or not you're renting a space on air B and B or picking
up a ride on uber you probably would think that it's important that your ratings stays as high as possible.
As you the consumer and you the person paying money so is your site reputation important and is not
as important as you would think.
I've seen over the years many many people who have posted jobs had terrible feedback and still got a
kid.
You know consistently got large amounts of bids and found great freelancers.
Now why is that.
Now there's a couple of reasons it might be the case that people with bad feedback still get a lot of
bids and a lot of interest.
I think one is because bids are not really indicative of whether or not a freelancer is paying attention
to who the employer is.
Typically if someone's bidding on their project they're spending most of their time looking at your
actual project description your specs whatever you've attached to it.
They rarely get to the point where they're checking out you your actual profile and making decision
whether or not it's worth it to waste their time on it.
That's not something they typically do up front unless it's a large project.
Now the other reason is I think that a lot of freelancers are just you know if they're biased towards
whether or not they fit a project if they fit a project and the employer is showing interest in them
and it seems like a good fit they're obviously going to be more interested in that project.
And typically they're going to throw away the fact that the other you know the employer has some negative
reviews has some marks on their profile.
Now the one scenario where having bad reviews can actually come and kind of bite you later when perhaps
you're launching larger projects now larger projects because a freelancer can make more money off of
it and can have more billable hours off of it.
They're actually going to spend more time up front larger projects are going to require even you know
30 minutes of time on their own.
Putting together a thoughtful complete you know very is sometimes well-researched proposal and if that's
the case they're much much more likely to look at the employer and if there's a lot of negative reviews
they'll probably say that it's not worth the significant enough time it would take to actually bid on
your project.
Now the other scenario where this could become a problem is when you're doing some of the more advanced
vetting techniques that we cover in this course.
So if you're using things like screener questions if your doing the $50 test if you're asking them to
do small bits of work send it to you to evaluate it.
If you're doing the sample technique there's a good chance that the freelancer will not do it simply
because they're looking at your profile and deciding whether or not they want to spend another 20 minutes
on it.
Obviously they're going to be inclined to work with you because they feel as if there's a better chance
of being chosen.
But it can become a significant problem especially if you use multiple vetting techniques.
But the more important thing is that if you're getting repeatedly negative reviews there could be something
wrong with the way that you are contracting out.
There could be a lot of issues and don't waste the opportunity to find a way of improving what you're
doing.
So realistically if you have a bad review it's not the end of the world and actually doesn't really
even matter unless you're doing large projects unless you're doing a lot of intensive vetting and you're
looking for long term partners and so you're asking them do a lot more work up front.
That's one of becomes a problem.
But up until that point it's not really an issue you're still going to be able to find great freelancers.
And once you do find a great freelancer the review from that is probably going to eventually reach you
up to kind of a level point.
If you're still getting bad feedback.
Make sure to figure out what you're doing wrong and why it is that you're repeatedly having bad experiences.
It's probably something wrong in the process that you're using and it's a great opportunity for improvement.
So I will see in the next lecture.